1. Legal actions in which the alleged injured party sues for monetary damages are
 *a. Civil actions
 B. Criminal actions
 C.  Malpractice
.d. Vicarious liability


2. Significant gaps in the quality of waived testing practices in that positions offices resulted in a recent development of
1. Behavioral Competencies
*b.  good laboratory practices
C.  quality indicators
d . test threshold values


3. The level of care that a person of ordinary intelligence and good sense would exercise under the given circumstances is the definition of 
*a. Due care
2. Quality care 
3.  critical care
4. Standard of care


4. Which of the following is a phlebotomy QA procedure?
*a. Checking needles for blunt tips and barbs
B. keeping a record of employee sick leave
C. recording any instrument maintenance
D. tracking all lab OSHA violations


5. Which preanalytical factor that can affect validity of test results is not always under the phlebotomist’s control?
1. Patient ID
*b. Patient preparation
C. specimen collection
D. Specimen handling


6. After a failed venipuncture attempt and before deciding to switch to the patient’s other arm, the phlebotomist moves the needle around several times in search of the vein without knowing exactly where the needle is in relation to the desired vein.  No blood was obtained.  At the new site, blood easily flows and the venipuncture is completed.  The patient later complains of pain in the antecubital area where the phlebotomist was unsuccessful.  What claim can be made against the phlebotomists?
   1. Assault
   2. Fraud
      *c. Negligence
       D. Res ipsa loquitur
7.  Which laboratory document describes in detail the steps to follow for specimen collection?
   1. OSHA safety manual
   2. B. policy guidelines
*c. Procedure manual
D. safety manual


8. Drawinga patient's blood without his or her permission can result in ca charge of 
*a assault and battery
B. breach of confidentiality
   3. Malpractice
   4. Negligence


9.  Which of the following would violate the patient’s right to confidentiality?
*a. Discussing the nature of a patient’s test results  with the family
B. fibing the patient a physician name that you know and trust
C. sharing information on a difficult draw with a coworker
D. showing a patient his or her lab results when requested


10. A phlebotomist explains to an inpatient that he has come to collect a blood specimen.  The patient extends his arm and pushes up his sleeve  the is an example of 
   1. Expressed consent
      *b. Implied consent
   2. malpractice
   3. negligence




11. How do QC and QA differ?
   1. QA aims to prevent future problems
   2. QA is a component of a QC program
   3. QC attempts to prevent future problems
*d. All of the above.
